# Supported Testnets

Ethereum Mainnet is the primary public Ethereum production blockchain, where actual-value transactions occur on the distributed ledger. There are many different Ethereum Testnets, and each testnet uses its own test ETH as currency, respectively. It's generally essential to test all smart contracts code on a testnet before deploying it to the Mainnet. 

Most testnets use a proof-of-authority consensus mechanism. This means a small number of nodes are chosen to validate transactions and create new blocks – staking their identity in the process. It's hard to incentivize mining on a proof-of-work testnet which can leave it vulnerable.

## Ropsten

Ropsten is a proof-of-work testnet for those running Geth, Besu and all other Ethereum clients. This means it's the best like-for-like representation of Ethereum. Ropsten started in November 2016 and it can be used with all clients. Detail information can be checked in [link](https://docs.etherscan.io/v/ropsten-etherscan).

## Rinkeby

Rinkeby is a proof-of-authority(clique) testnet for those running Geth, Besu, Nethermind, and OpenEthereum client. Rinkeby started in April 2017 and is immune to spam attacks(as Trusted parties control ether supply). Detail information can be checked in [link](https://docs.etherscan.io/v/rinkeby-etherscan).


## Goerli

Goerli is a proof-of-authority testnet that works across clients. Goerli started in November 2018. Goerli doesn't fully reproduce the current production environment as it uses PoA. Detail information can be checked in [link](https://docs.etherscan.io/v/goerli-etherscan/).


## Kovan

Kovan is a proof-of-authority testnet for those running OpenEthereum clients. Kovan started in March 2017 and is immune to spam attacks. Kovan doesn't fully reproduce the current production environment as it uses PoA. Detail information can be checked in [link](https://docs.etherscan.io/v/kovan-etherscan).
